If you've ever done any kind of
prototyping, think about being in a room,
having those discussions about like,
hey, we're gonna build a prototype.
We're gonna build a proof of concept.
And try to remember the conversation,
and think about what limiting beliefs
exist around rapid prototyping.
And there are a ton of limiting beliefs.
I think one of the biggest ones is,
should we even do a prototype?
Should we see if this is
indeed what the user wants?
Or do we just go ahead, roll the dice,
YOLO, you only launch once,
literally, and just build it and
hope people buy it.
Or do we build a prototype?
And so once you get beyond kind
of that initial threshold,
there are a myriad of, I think,
beliefs that kind of exist around
rapid prototyping that I want
to kind of walk through or
just cut through this a little bit.
So when we think of prototyping,
the most basic form is pen and paper.
And then you have wireframes,
static mocks,
interactive mocks, and so
this is where things get super fancy.
Something like InVision or
something that you can go a long
ways with an interactive mock.
And I am not criticizing any of those, but
once you get up to kind of like that
InVision style interactive mock,
there seems to be this barrier
that just kinda comes in.
And what the barrier is that,
do we build a high fidelity prototype?
And I have just encountered a ton of
criticism, or even resistance around,
hey, why don't we skip
all of these pieces here?
Pen and paper, wireframes, etc.
Or let's do just
an abbreviated version and
let's go straight to building something.
And I think the reason this is, is that
there's a perceived high level of effort,
that if we were actually
going to build this,
that this would take more
effort than it is worth.
The reason being, is that code is hard.
I think as well there is this,
I've had variations of
this from engineers, tons of them,
that just to be clear,
this prototype must never,
ever be put into production.
We'll throw this away and
we'll replace it with real code.
And so that is a huge limiting belief.
And I believe it's probably one of
the largest barriers to entry for
people, especially business
stakeholders to getting on
board with just building
the thing as a prototype.
The reason being is that historically,
prototypes are designated as disposable or
throw away because they're not
written to production standards.
And so this is where, just to be clear,
if we do this, we got to throw it away.
We're simply doing recon, and they think
of it like, I don't know, like a Trojan
horse in a way of like we're gonna build
something that looks like a horse.
We're gonna basically go on this journey,
see what everybody's doing and
then we're gonna come back, and
then we're gonna get on real horses, and
then we're gonna go and invade.
And so mentally,
the distinction between a prototype and
real code, that distinction or
that chasm that exists between the two is,
I think this is what
prevents organizations from
leaning in to building
high fidelity prototypes.
And here is a another big idea.
So this is number two for the day.
Prototypes, they should be
disposable because they
are immutable and
not because they are inferior.
I feel like I need a little
Twitter icon in the corner for
the things that I think are probably
something that I would tweet about.
And so this is where when
we think about prototypes,
that they should be disposable
because they're immutable,
and not because they're inferior.
And I'm drawing heavily on this idea of
immutable architecture or infrastructure.
So immutable infrastructure,
it's an approach that components
are replaced rather than changed.
So an application or
services is effectively redeployed
each time any change occurs.
Now in the cloud infrastructure space,
this adoption of immutable
infrastructure or
an immutable infrastructure approach
has absolutely changed the game.
This allows high velocity
organizations to sometimes have 20,
30 deployments in a day.
And the reason being, is that
they're not pulling something down,
trying to fix it, and then push it
back up, in terms of infrastructure,
that we simply just redeploy
another instance of it.
And so this idea is cattle, not pets.
And I believe that we
would go with service well
as application engineers
to think of our code,
at least major pieces of it
as immutable infrastructure.
In the sense of these are the things that
we're just going to redeploy, regenerate.
And we can focus on
the things that change.
So I'm gonna do a quick
interlude around expertise.
So specifically experience and expertise.
And the reason why I
bring this up is because
we're talking about skill and effort.
I don't wanna do a rapid prototype,
because it's hard, it will take too much
effort, it's too much time,
too much cost, too much investment.
And so there's one point that
I'd like to just call out here,
this is a bonus section but
it's important.
There's a book called The Business
of Expertise, I highly recommend it.
And within the first couple pages,
he says,
intelligence is essentially
pattern matching.
And so remember what I said
about mastery being reductive.
Pattern matching is possible when
similar scenarios are presented,
ideally over a long period of time.
And so it's actually repeated
exposure to similar scenarios
that's going to allow you to
be in an environment that you
can start to establish
patterns within that context.
And when enough scenarios are presented,
pattern matching turns into insights.
And so I believe that a domain expert
has been described as somebody
who's made every possible mistake
within a specific domain.
And so this idea is that when you've
been presented with enough scenarios and
you have started to converge
on the most dominant
patterns, all of a sudden now, guess what?
You're probably,
if you have applied those patterns and
converted them into insight,
that you're probably a, quite possibly,
a senior engineer, an architect,
a staff engineer, whatever it is.
Because expertise is the ability
to convert these insights into
valuable outcomes.
And so when we are exposed
to, The same scenario over and
over and over, we have an opportunity
to start to notice patterns.
From those patterns,
we start to gain insight.
And from that insight,
we are able to convert those
insights into valuable outcomes.
And so back to mastery.
I believe that true mastery is
the ability to transfer mastery.
And so
my opinion is that you do not truly know
something until you can
transfer that thing,
that idea, that concept, to somebody else.
And for efficiency sake, that at least for
me, The gold standard for me,
for mastery, is being able to
transfer ideas to small children.
Because when you can do that or
in a way like the mom test,
that's how you, I believe,
really know something.
And it's not that you
are condescending towards,
let's say a small child or your mom.
More importantly is that it is
amazing the amount of effort and
energy and discipline that it takes
to take something you know and
reduce it into such a way that you
could explain it to a small child.
And they would understand the concept
that you're trying to communicate.
And so I have a super,
super fancy graph here,
and just for math reasons and
scientific purposes is that skill and
effort are inversely proportionate.
That your first repetition of anything
is going to be very high effort.
But as you start to acquire skills, so
let's say on your 1,000th rep,
all of a sudden now your
body starts to adapt,
and it becomes easier.
And then on your 1,000th rep,
then it becomes much,
much easier to the point it's your 10th,
10,000th
rep that all of a sudden now
the effort that you are trying to or
the effort that you are expecting to
accomplish a goal is almost negligible.
And so, one, that do not be
afraid to do the hard things.
Because in doing so,
the hard things become effortless things.
And in the context of rapid prototypes
is that it's not that coding is hard,
relative term, or
rapid prototyping is hard.
It's that we simply need to
commit to gaining the reps and
the exposure to the right context and
the right environment to reduce the effort
that it takes to produce these artifacts.
So this is not so
much a philosophical idea,
but I just want to really
pin this particular thing,
patterns are important.
So, if you've heard of the saying,
DRY, what does that mean?
Don't repeat yourself.
Well, how do we know if
something has been repeated?
Think about that.
Well, it's pattern matching.
And so patterns are really important.
And so if you've ever stopped and
you're like I've done this before.
On some level mentally, you've realized
that you have repeated yourself or
that you've already implemented
something that this pattern over here,
this output, matches this thing over here,
and this is important.
And I want to encourage you as
engineers to be very sensitive to that.
When you start to get the Spidey-sense,
I think they call it the Peter tingle in
the movies, hilarious, is that all of a
sudden, you're like I've done this before,
something doesn't feel right, or
I feel like this could be easier.
That is on a subconscious level,
possibly a conscious level that
your brain is trying to tell you
this is a pattern, I've seen it.
And so do not underestimate
the importance of patterns.